we begin with the latest developments
from Israel and Gaza the UN Secretary
General Antonio guz has warned countries
on the security Council that public
order in Gaza is likely to completely
break down because of Israeli
bombardment and the lack of essential
supplies Israel's foreign minister has
sharply criticized Mr ceras saying his
tenure is a danger to World Peace well
in the last 24 hours Israel has carried
out more heavy aerial bombardment across
Gaza in its fight against Hamas and the
fighting on the ground has intensified
in the South particularly around KH
yunice Israeli officials say the IDF has
surrounded the home of hamas's Chief
Yara Sina well let's cross live now to
Jerusalem and our correspondent yoland n
and yolan good to have you on this
morning Antonio Gua is there saying
there could be a collapse of public
audit Israel's foreign minister however
sharply criticizing that what is the
situation like on the ground and How
likely would you say is this
collapse well I mean certainly if we
look at the fighting that's been going
on first of all um the pictures this
morning you could see smoke was still
rising up uh from the north of the Gaza
Strip uh but according to one of the
Israel main Israeli newspapers here the
Israeli military is now considered that
it's got operational control of these
two areas um jabalia in the north and
Shia in the east of Gaza City which were
considered to Hamas strongholds they
have been the scene of most fighting in
the north uh the real attention has gone
to KH yunes the biggest city in the
south of the Gaza Strip that's where
we've had these very Fierce battles
going on we understand between Israeli
forces and Hamas fighters who are hold
up there um and Israeli forces saying
they're now encircling the house of
Yahya Sina the Hamas leader in Gaza I
mean that is mostly symbolically
significant um really because he and
other Hamas leaders who are thought
maybe to be in kenun I really thought to
be in underground tunnels hidden well
out of the way but we had Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu coming out
uh saying that this really showed a
determination it's only a matter of time
before we get him Mr Netanyahu said and
your land just while you're speaking
there viewers have been just seeing the
devastation in carun and young children
walking around looking injured a lot of
the focus today on the humanitarian
situation is Aid getting to those areas
where that fighting is
intensifying I mean that's a big
complaint o of the UN and we had the
un's aid Chief Martin Griffith coming
out saying that the situation in Gaza is
now apocalyptic and he was really
complaining that because people have
been crammed down they've been told to
evacuate even from Kanan unes of course
people originally told to move from the
north to the South for their safety now
people have fled into a small Corner um
in the very south of the Gaza Strip next
to the border with Egypt uh people are
living on the street sleeping rough
there aren't enough shelters to go
around and it's very difficult to um
both get AIDS delivered to them there um
but also Aid delivered them to other
parts of the Gaza Strip because of the
ongoing fighting because of road
closures as well um and so uh actually
Martin Griff is saying meaningful
humanitarian efforts and now virtually
impossible and youan just briefly before
we go um when it comes to Food Supplies
medical supplies as well there's been a
huge focus on the hospitals out there
trying to treat the wounded are we
hearing anything about how people are
managing to
survive I mean when I've spoken to
colleagues in the past day uh they've
told me about how they're surviving just
on uh pieces of bread how they're trying
to find little scraps of wood so that
they can light fires to try to heat some
food for their children even if it's
just po it it's a really miserable
situation and extremely difficult um and
I I think this is going to be the main
focus now in the coming days a lot of
international attention centered on this
absolutely yes and we'll be following
that very closely yoland Nell in
Jerusalem thank you for that update